Introduction to python

python is a general purpose high level programming language.
Python was developyed by Guido Van Rossam in 1989 while working at Nation Research Insititute at Netherlands.
But officially Python was made available to public in 1991. The official Date of Birth for Python is : Feb 20th 1991
Python is recommended as first programming language for beginners.
The name Python was selected from the TV Show "The complete Monty Python's Circus", which was broadcasted in BBC from 1969 to 1974.
Guido developed Python language by taking almost all programming features from different languages:
1.) Functional Programming features from C 
2.) Object Oriented Programming Features from C++
3.) Scripting Language features from Perl and Shell Script
4.) 4. Modular Programming features from Modula-3

Most of syntax in Python Derived from C and ABC languages 

Where we can use Python

1.) For developing Desktop Applications
2.) For developing web Applications
3.) For developing database Applications
4.) For Network Programming
5.) For developing games
6.) For Data Analysis Applications
7.) For Machine learning
8.) For developing artificial Intelligence Applications
9.) For IOT 

Features of Python
1.) Simple and easy to learn
2.) Freeware and Open Source 
3.) High Level Programming language
4.) Platform Independent 
5.) Portability 
6.) Dynamically Typed
7.) Both Procedure Oriented and Object Oriented 
8.) Interpreted
9.) Extensive Library

Limitations of Python:
1.) It is not used for mobile Applications
2.) It is interpreted, so it is not as performant as C or C++ or any compiled language 

Reserve words
In Python some words are reserved to represent some meaning or functionality
Such type of words are called Reserved words.
There are 33 reserved words available in Python

True,False,None

and, or, not, is
if,elif,else
while, for, break, continue, return, in, yield
try,except, finally,raise,assert
import,from,as,class,def,pass,global,nonlocal,lambda,del,with

Note: 1.All Reserved words in Python contain only alphabet symbols.
2. Except the following 3 reserved words, all contain only lower case alphabet symbols
True


